#### How can I create a YAML file?

You can use you favourite text editor. However, do not use a word
processor or anything else that saves files in binary format.

#### Do I need to parse each `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file or does Semaphore 2.0 do the work for me?

Semaphore 2.0 will do the work for you. You just have to create correct
YAML files.

#### Can I define a Semaphore 2.0 project without a YAML file?

No.

#### Does Semaphore 2.0 have a web interface?

Yes but not for defining the jobs of a project. The only way to define a
new Semaphore 2.0 project is with a `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file.

#### Can I copy an existing `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file to create a new project?

Yes! Actually this is one of the advantages of configuration files in
text format, which also includes YAML files.

#### Do I need to use every feature of the grammar of the YAML file?

No, you should only need to use the features you want.

#### Can I skip the preamble on the `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file?

No, the following code should always be present at the beginning of a
`.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file:

    version: v1.0
    name: <The name of the Semaphore 2.0 project>
    agent:
      machine:
        type: e1-standard-2
        os_image: ubuntu1804
    blocks:

#### What if my `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file has errors?

Semaphore 2.0 will not execute your project if its
`.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file has any errors.

####  What is the first thing to look when a `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file does not work?

The indentation!

#### About indentation levels

This is a tricky one so please pay extra attention: Definitions of all
elements of the same list *must have* the same indentation level. This
means that the following `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file will not work:

    $ cat .semaphore/semaphore.yml
    version: v1.0
    name: Basic, 2 blocks YAML file example.
    agent:
      machine:
        type: e1-standard-2
        os_image: ubuntu1804
    blocks:
       - task:
          jobs:
            - name: Job from 1st block
              commands:
                - echo $SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID
            - name: 2nd job from 1st task block
              commands:
                - echo "This is from second job"
     - task:
          jobs:
            - name: Job from 2nd task block
              commands:
                - echo $SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID
                - echo "This is new"
                - echo bar2

The reason that the aforementioned `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file will
not work is because the indentation level between the two `task` blocks
differs by two space characters.

As you can understand, the YAML parser used reads the indentation level
of the first element of a list and expects that all the other elements
of the same list will use that indentation level.

However, the next `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file will work as all
elements of the same list have the same indentation level:

    $ cat .semaphore/semaphore.yml
    version: v1.0
    name: Basic, 2 blocks YAML file example.
    agent:
      machine:
        type: e1-standard-2
        os_image: ubuntu1804
    blocks:
       - task:
          jobs:
            - name: Job from 1st block
              commands:
                - echo $SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID
            - name: 2nd job from 1st task block
              commands:
                - echo "This is from second job"
       - task:
          jobs:
            - name: Job from 2nd task block
              commands:
                - echo $SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID
                - echo "This is new"
                - echo bar2

#### Is that all with indentation?

Unfortunately no!

As an example, the `jobs` items have to have one more level of
indentation than `task` filed above it. As a general advice, increase
the indentation level as you add items under an existing item.

#### Tabs or Spaces?

Spaces! Tabs might perplex the YAML parser and make it think that your
YAML file is incorrect.

#### The `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file looks good but the parser fails to parse it. What is the problem?

Indentation! If you are sure that the Indentation levels are correct,
check whether you have put any tab characters into the
`.semaphore/semaphore.yml` file.

### Can two or more blocks properties have the same name?

Nope! If you accidentally name two or more `blocks` properties with the
same name, you will get an error message similar to the following:

    semaphore.yml ERROR:
    Error: "There are at least two blocks with same name: Build Go project"

#### The handy SEMAPHORE\_GIT\_DIR environment variable

You will now learn a trick that can help you create portable
`.semaphore/semaphore.yml` files as far as directories are concerned.

If you want to use the files of your GitHub repository you will first
need to execute the `checkout` utility. Notice that the `checkout`
Semaphore 2.0 utility automatically takes you to the root directory of
your GitHub repository. This value is also kept in the
`SEMAPHORE_GIT_DIR` environment variable in case you want to go back
there afterwards.

If you want to go further and make your `.semaphore/semaphore.yml` files
more versatile, you can execute the `checkout` utility in a `prologue`
section:

    prologue:
         commands:
              - checkout
              - echo $SEMAPHORE_GIT_DIR

###  Comments on YAML files

All lines starting with the # character are considered comments:

    # Is This a comment?
    # Yes it is!

#### A handy git command for testing

Should you wish to test the current `.semaphore/semaphore.yml`
configuration file without making any actual files changes to your
GitHub project, you can issue the next git command:

    $ git commit --allow-empty -m "A message"

Just do not forget to execute `git push` afterwards to actually send the
empty commit.

